---
title: Content creators Guide

toc_footers:
  - <a href='http://github.com/tripit/slate'>Documentation Powered by Slate</a>

includes:
  - example

---

# Content creator's Guide


## Problem Submission Folder Structure
```
.
|-- problem
|   |-- 1.in
|   |-- 1.out
|   |-- 2.in
|   |-- 2.out
|   |-- problem_statement.md
|   |-- problem_solution.py
|   |-- problem_testgen.py
|   `-- run.sh
|-- problem.tar.gz
```

1. create a folder for your problem, which should at minimum contain:

    a. the markdown file of problem.

    b. the solution for problem in at least one language.

    c. one or more testcase generators.

    d. the input and output files are either generated by the testcase generators or crafted manually.

2. keep the test generator simple i.e just print the test data into stdout.

3. include a `run.sh` shell file which can be used to generate the testdata. if problem_testgen is random test generator program should accept the seed from stdin. and print the testdata onto stdout. an example shell command for generating a test case would look like below.

```sh
echo "1238" | python problem_testgen.py | tee 0.in | time python problem_solution.py > 0.out
```

4. as seen from the command, we are measuring the time, if you think that testgen will take more time to print the testdata than the solution, remove the pipe from testgen to solution as the time module will display incorrect results.

5. after completing the problem, you can zip the file by using any popular zip tool(tar, rar, 7zip), if you are using tar, use this command for best results ` env GZIP=-9 tar -zcvf problem.tar.gz problem`



## Problem Statement Format (in the markdown file of the problem)
```

    ## Problem name
    Sam and candies

    ## Problem Statement
    Sam loves candies. He is in candyland. He found n bags of candies there. The bags are labelled from 1 to n.He can bring home only 2 bags of candies from there. What is the maximum number of candies which he can take home?

    ## Input format
    The 1st line will contain n, the number of bags (**1 <= n <= 10<sup>5</sup>**)
    The second line will contain n integers which are the number of candies in i<sup>th</sup> bag (**0 <= Ai <= 10<sup>5</sup>**)

    ## Output format
    A single line containing the maximum number of candies

    ## Sample test cases

    ## Input #1:
    ```
    2
    4 5
    ```

    ## Output #1:
    ```
    9
    ```

    ## Explanation #1:
    Only 2 bags are there, so we will take those bags

    ## Input #2:
    ```
    5
    1 2 2 4 3
    ```
    ## Output #2:
    ```
    4 5
    ```

    ## Explanation #2:
    Bag 4 and bag 3

    ## Tags
    Easy

    ## Editorial
    You can find the maximum number of candies by finding the two bags which have the maximum candies

    ## Solution

    ```cpp
    #include <iostream>
    #include <vector>
    #include <algorithm>

    using namespace std;

    int main()
    {
        int n;
        vector <int> bag;

        cin >> n;

        bag.resize(n);

        for (int i=0; i<n; i++)
        {
            cin >> bag[i];
        }

        if (n == 1)
        {
            cout << bag[0];
        }
        else if (n == 2)
        {
            cout << bag[0]+bag[1];
        }
        else
        {
            // sort in decreasing order
            sort(bag.rbegin(), bag.rend());
            cout << bag[0]+bag[1];
        }
    }
    ```

```

Each problem should contain the following information(refer to the markdown code on the side, if you are a markdown noob):

### Problem name
Some fancy name for the problem. If the problems are part of a hackathon, the name should go along with the theme of the hackathon.
### Problem statement
This explains the problem. The problem description should be interesting and easy to follow.
### Image(s) (optional)
Include image(s) if you think the problem can be better explained using them.
### Input format
The description of input for the problem. This should also contain constraints.
### Output format
The format of the Output
### Sample test cases
Sample input test cases which will give better understanding. Include image(s) if it can be explained better using them. an example sample testcase.
##### Input #1:
input for first sample testcase.
##### Output #1:
output for first sample testcase.
##### Explanation #1:
explanation for first sample testcase.

### Editorial
Explanation of solution to the problem.
### Solution
The solution code in any accepted language. It should be commented
### Difficulty of the problem
One of the following

* **Easy:** This kind of problem should be easily solvable by anyone who is familiar with basic data structures and algorithms. The approach for the solution should be obvious from the problem statement.
**Success rate:** 80%
* **Medium:** This kind of problem should require knowledge of advanced data structures and algorithms like Dynamic Programming, Greedy algorithms, Graph traversal, etc.
**Success rate:** 50%
* **Hard:** This kind of problem should require experience in competitive programming along with knowledge of advance programming concepts.
**Success rate:** 20%

### Tags
Math, String manipulation, Graph, Dynamic programming, API

### Time limit
Approximate time limit for the code run

## Test Cases

* **Description of each test case and test generator** This should also contain the weightage for each test case in order to distinguish difficult test cases from easy ones. put this in a some file like `testgen.md`.
If using random in test case generator, make sure to use fixed seed to generate same test cases
* **Input file(s):** 1 or more input files
* **Output file(s):** 1 or more output files
* **Testing script (optional):** The test script which will be used to evaluate the solution (for example, in case of OS state evaluation)


## Guidelines for creating a new problem

* Try to base the problem on some practical use cases so that it becomes interesting and candidates get to learn something new in the process
* The problem should not be copied from other websites
* The solution should not be easily available on the internet
* The problem statement should be written in simple language so that there is no ambiguity

## Notes

* Input test cases should cover all corner cases so that the accepted solutions are correct
* Input test cases should contain easy test cases also so that users can get partial score for thie attempt
